[Docs] i18n asciidocs (#32547)
elastic/kibana: docs/development/plugin/development-plugin-localization.asciidoc

[[development-plugin-localization]]

> === Localization for Plugins

Reviewer: Several paragraphs in this doc include lists.  For the lists to work, add a line space above the list.

Also, some of the links didn't work.

> To introduce localization for your plugin. Use our i18n tool to create Ids and default messages. Then extract those Ids into localization json files to be used by kibana when running your plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To introduce localization for your plugin, use our i18n tool to create IDs and default messages. You can then extract those IDs into localization JSON files for Kibana to use when running your plugin.
```

> To introduce localization for your plugin. Use our i18n tool to create Ids and default messages. Then extract those Ids into localization json files to be used by kibana when running your plugin.

Reviewer 2: __nit:__ `extract these IDs` ---> `extract these IDs with respective default messages` or something like this.

To create translations add a `translations` directory at the root of your plugin. This folder will include the translations files which will be automatically parsed and used by kibana.

["source","shell"]
-----------
.
├── translations
│   ├── en.json
│   └── zh-CN.json
└── .i18nrc.json
-----------

[float]
==== Using kibana i18n tooling
In order to simplify localization process, some additional tools were implemented:
- tool for verifying all translations have translatable strings and extracting default messages from templates
- tool for verifying translation files and integrating them to Kibana

To use kibana i18n tooling, create a `.i18nrc.json` file providing the following configs:
* `paths` directory paths where i18n translation ids are to be extracted from
* `exclude` list of files to exclude while parsing paths
* `translations` list of translations where json localizations are to be found.

["source","json"]
-----------
{
  "paths": {
    "myPlugin": "src/ui",
  },
  "exclude": [
  ],
  "translations": [
    "translations/zh-CN.json"
  ]
}
-----------

A full example for kibana `.i18nrc.json` can be {blob}6.7/.i18nrc.json[found here].

> Full documentation about i18n tooling can be {blob}6.7/src/dev/i18n/README.md[found here].

Reviewer 2: Yeah, looks like `blob` shortcut already includes branch name:
```
:blob:           {repo}blob/{branch}/
```

  - Check for incompatible translations - if developer, let's say removed or added new parameter to an existing string, they will need to remove this label from translations file.

To check your i18n translations, run the following command:

["source","shell"]
-----------
node scripts/i18n_check --fix --include-config ../kibana-extra/myPlugin/.i18nrc.json
-----------

[float]
==== Implementing i18n in UI

Kibana relies on several UI frameworks (ReactJS and AngularJS) and
requires localization in different environments (browser and NodeJS).
Internationalization engine is framework agnostic and consumable in
all parts of Kibana (ReactJS, AngularJS and NodeJS). In order to simplify
internationalization in UI frameworks, the additional abstractions are
built around the I18n engine: `react-intl` for React and custom
components for AngularJS. https://github.com/yahoo/react-intl[React-intl]
is built around https://github.com/yahoo/intl-messageformat[intl-messageformat],
so both React and AngularJS frameworks use the same engine and the same
message syntax.

[float]

> ==== i18n for Vanilla Javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== i18n for vanilla JavaScript
```

["source","js"]
-----------
import { i18n } from '@kbn/i18n';

export const HELLO_WORLD = i18n.translate('hello.wonderful.world', {
  defaultMessage: 'Greetings, planet Earth!',
});
-----------

Full details can be {repo}tree/6.7/packages/kbn-i18n#vanilla-js[found here].

[float]
==== i18n for React 

To localize strings in React, use either `FormattedMessage` or `i18n.translate`.

["source","js"]
-----------
import { i18n } from '@kbn/i18n';
import { FormattedMessage } from '@kbn/i18n/react';

export const Component = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      {i18n.translate('xpack.someText', { defaultMessage: 'Some text' })}
      <FormattedMessage id="xpack.someOtherText" defaultMessage="Some other text">
      </FormattedMessage>
    </div>
  );
};
-----------

Full details can be {repo}tree/6.7/packages/kbn-i18n#react[found here].

[float]
==== i18n for Angular 

> To localize strings in React, use either `FormattedMessage` or `i18n.translate`.

Reviewer 2: __issue:__ looks like copy-paste from React section?

* `paths`.  The directory from which the i18n translation IDs are extracted.
* `exclude`. The list of files to exclude while parsing paths.
* `translations`. The list of translations where JSON localizations are found.

["source","json"]
-----------
{
  "paths": {
    "myPlugin": "src/ui",
  },
  "exclude": [
  ],
  "translations": [
    "translations/zh-CN.json"
  ]
}
-----------

An example Kibana `.i18nrc.json` is {blob}.i18nrc.json[here].

Full documentation about i18n tooling is {blob}src/dev/i18n/README.md[here].

[float]
==== Extracting default messages
To extract the default messages from your plugin, run the following command:

["source","shell"]
-----------
node scripts/i18n_extract --output-dir ./translations --include-config ../kibana-extra/myPlugin/.i18nrc.json
-----------

This outputs a `en.json` file inside the `translations` directory. To localize other languages, clone the file and translate each string.

[float]
==== Checking i18n messages

Checking i18n does the following:

* Checks all existing labels for violations.
* Takes translations from .i18nrc.json and compares them to the messages extracted and validated at the step above and:

>   * Checks for unused translations. If you remove a label that has a corresponding translation, you must also remove the label from the translations file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Checks for unused translations. If you remove a label that has a corresponding translation, you must also remove the label from the translations file.
```

  * Checks for incompatible translations.  If you add or remove a new parameter from an existing string, you must also remove the label from the translations file.

To check your i18n translations, run the following command:

["source","shell"]
-----------
node scripts/i18n_check --fix --include-config ../kibana-extra/myPlugin/.i18nrc.json
-----------

[float]

> ==== Implementing i18n in UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Implementing i18n in the UI
```

Kibana relies on several UI frameworks (ReactJS and AngularJS) and
requires localization in different environments (browser and NodeJS).
The internationalization engine is framework agnostic and consumable in
all parts of Kibana (ReactJS, AngularJS and NodeJS). In order to simplify
internationalization in UI frameworks, additional abstractions are
built around the I18n engine: `react-intl` for React and custom
components for AngularJS. https://github.com/yahoo/react-intl[React-intl]
is built around https://github.com/yahoo/intl-messageformat[intl-messageformat],
so both React and AngularJS frameworks use the same engine and the same
message syntax.

[float]

> ==== i18n for vanilla JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== i18n for vanilla JavaScript
```

["source","js"]
-----------
import { i18n } from '@kbn/i18n';

export const HELLO_WORLD = i18n.translate('hello.wonderful.world', {
  defaultMessage: 'Greetings, planet Earth!',
});
-----------

Full details are {repo}tree/6.7/packages/kbn-i18n#vanilla-js[here].

[float]

> ==== i18n for React 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== i18n for React 
```

To localize strings in React, use either `FormattedMessage` or `i18n.translate`.

["source","js"]
-----------
import { i18n } from '@kbn/i18n';
import { FormattedMessage } from '@kbn/i18n/react';

export const Component = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      {i18n.translate('xpack.someText', { defaultMessage: 'Some text' })}
      <FormattedMessage id="xpack.someOtherText" defaultMessage="Some other text">
      </FormattedMessage>
    </div>
  );
};
-----------

Full details are {repo}tree/6.7/packages/kbn-i18n#react[here].

[float]

> ==== i18n for Angular 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== i18n for Angular 
```
